Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to do a practice exercise.
We're going to take a little bit of what we've done earlier and improve on it and then we're also going
to build out that list of friends and we're going to make that list editable.
We can also remove items from the list we can add items and we can edit the existing items.
So this is all going to be done via javascript via a dynamically generated list.
And we are going to do some of what we learned earlier.
So first off let's start out by creating our array.
So we need an array that's actually going to fold hold all of our friends list.
So we're going to use that same friends list that we had earlier where we had a number of different
friends that we could utilize.
So I simply copy and paste it from the earlier project.
So there we go.
So we have our friends list and the other thing that I wanted to do is I wanted to build it at my table.
So on load I want to fire off the function called build.
So let's save that and next let's add in the function build.
So basically this one is going to build out our table.
So in this exercise we're going to the a table and the first column is going to have the name the second
column is going to have delete.
And the third column is going to have an edit option and then depending on which one gets clicked that
we're going to take some type of action within the rest of the cells within the role.
So let's start by creating a variable HMO.
And a lot of this is going to be very similar to what we did earlier but we are going to make it different.
So this is going to be called the click table and close off that H1 and then we know that we're ready
to start opening up our table.
So next thing that we need to do is we need to create our loop in order to build out where our table.
So starting at zero we're going to loop through while my array length is greater than x.
And then when that statement's no longer true that we know that we can break out of the loop.
So within the loop itself let's build out our each to m-L.
So we're going to concatenate him all together with that cell.
So first thing that we need to do is set up a table row and then within there we've got a table and
then within that table we're going to have the value from the array.
Some of us will add that in.
Now at this point.
So we'll just add that in.
And then next let's go back into our string and we'll close off that table cell and open another one.
And so within this one I want to have a hyperlink.
So basically this hyperlink is not going to go anywhere and when it gets clicked we're going to add
action.
So data action is going to be delete
so when this gets clicked that and this one in this instance what we want to do is delete that element
so delete that out.
So we just call it D L for short and close that off and then we can close off the table cell and let's
open up another table cell.
And in this one what we want to do is we want to create the opportunity to add it so instead of delete
we're going to have our table action is going to be at it and we're going to type and edit.
So we're going to give the ability to edit when that gets selected and then just close off the table
roll.
And there's a few other parameters that we still need to add in and we need to add in an ID so to ID
and we can do ID and just simply add X to it.
So let's do that so that we always get a unique ID value and other thing that I want to get in is data
roll so that we actually know what the index value of x is and we can always refer to it at any time
whenever we make our selection.
So next thing that I want to do is I'm actually going to use a query selector.
So not always using IDs and basically So we've built out our H-2 mail.
I'm going to clean this up a little bit so I know it's kind of a little bit Kramm there.
And so whenever we finish off our loop then the next step is to add it in to our inner h t m l.
So let's take care of that.
And this time we can do documents and we'll use a query selector query so query selector and we're going
to select the class output and then within the class output Let's update the enraged him out of that
element with that each to him I'll tell you that we've been building out.
So go out to the page try it out and I can make this smaller as well.
So basically there we go.
We've got our table it's all ready to go.
So the next thing that we need to do is add in our event listeners.
So I want you to pause the video and I want you to use queries selector all and select only the elements
that have an attribute data action delete.
So loop through all of those and pick up those values.
So that's it.
And just to make things different.
We're looking for the attribute delete.
So notice that we don't have any classes on these Zoe.
The only information that we have is that we've got a hyperlink and that they've got a data action attribute
to them so paused the video and create that statement sole It is using query selector and selecting
those.
And this is a little bit tricky.
So the solution for this and I set up a variable.
So this is a d data.
Action is delete and or died.
So document and let's use the one that we're using is query select or all because we have multiple elements
that might contain this information.
And let's go back into this.
And we need to make our selection of that attribute and in order select after you attribute we use the
square brackets.
And then within the square brackets and we saw this earlier as well.
We can make our selection and we can check to see which one has the attribute delete.
So the next step is to loop through.
So let's say a console log that out and just make sure that we were able to actually pick all of them
up.
So let's refresh the page go into the console and there we go.
So we were able to pick all of them up.
They're all anchors that's why they're all A's and they're all anchored tags.
So they're picking up all nine of them that are on the page.
So that's great.
And now we know the next step is that we need to loop through them and add an event listener and the
list of that we want to add is click.
So I want you to pause the video and create that loop instead of adding the On Click event which we
did earlier.
I want you to add add event listener to them and the click event and then add in and set up a function
that whenever it gets clicked we logged something out into the console.
So go ahead and try that out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out and now let's create our loop.
So we need to loop through all of the items that are available.
So we're going to use X again and we're going to loop through while the length of while the dad length
is greater than x and we're going to continue to increment that.
And now the next thing that we need to do is add an event listener.
So for every single one we need to attach an event listener.
So let's do this.
And so that's our object and add that listener and the listener that we're listening for is click and
we want to fire off an anonymous function so set that up and basically whenever it gets clicked we're
going to console log.
Well just console log this for now.
So now let's go out and refresh the page and make sure that we've got that hooked up.
So we're listening for delete and whenever we click it that fires off.
So there's one thing that I did want to add in and notice that when we go out here and we refresh it
and we click it we're actually trying to move to another page.
So even though it's the hash it's still a tablet it still has a default action on it.
So what I want to do is remove that default action and do remember when we looked at this earlier there's
a built in method that's called prevent default.
And basically if we if we add this then we can prevent the default action.
So we go back to refresh and we see that now we're not actually following through on those click events.
So the next step is that we need to actually remove it from the array and then once it's removed from
the array we're going to rebuild this again.
So the next step we need to remove it from the array.
So we need the index value and luckily for us we've got the index value in data roll.
So we need to get that index value.
So that's the value that we need to pick up in order to remove it out of the array.
So now we know that we can use this in order to navigate up.
So let's do that we'll do this and we're going to go using.
So we we have a number of options so we can go to the parent
or instead.
We can also use closest.
So we saw that last time and I think the closest works best.
So because that usually it depending if our structure changes or if we added any additional elements
then that's not going to throw anything off.
And we're always going to make sure that we're searching for this data roll attribute.
So let's take a look and we're going to check to see the closest data roll and then what we need to
do is we need to get attribute
so we need to get the value of the attribute data row.
So pick that up
and let's log that out in the console so we can take a closer look.
And just to make sure that we're actually picking up that index value before we try to delete it.
So we know that six.
That's three.
That's two.
And we know the first one is zero.
So that's perfect.
Now the next step is to remove it out of the array and we can use splice in order to remove it.
And that also allows us to track that value.
So going way back in the earlier lessons we're working with arrays.
Let's set up and let's remove.
So just give it a variable of R and this is going to be the item that we're removing.
According to the index value that we're able to pick up from our data roll.
So this method is called splice and we need first to provide an index value.
So that's the index value and we want to take one of the items.
So we're turning it as our.
And we're pulling that information it's pulling out that item out of the array.
And then next we can simply relaunch build.
So once we've removed it from the array we're going to relaunch build and we're going to build a brand
new H2 Mal here.
So let's go ahead and try that out.
So refresh and when we hit Delete we see that we can delete out those values that we're selecting delete.
So we've got a delete working and we see also that we've got the item that we're deleting from that
array popping up there.
So the next part of this is edit and this one is actually going to be a little bit more complicated
than that delete.
And then lastly we also want to be able to add in items and the add in is actually going to be relatively
easy because we're simply going to push into the array.
So all of this is going to show you in the upcoming lesson.
So I take the core source code that we have right now at this point and update and add a new item into
the array.
And you can do it within the same format where you can simply add into the array and then launch and
build again and rebuild the structure that each time will tell it table structure again.
So go ahead and try that out in the next lesson I'll show you how to do that and how to complete the
edit part.